(Google Translation to English)

★ For Rogue Clone 2 Japanese Version 1.3 Options 89-08-16

Ota Jun
Ohta@src.ricoh.co.jp
Ricoh Software Division
TEL 03-815-7261

1. starting method

To start the game, enter one of the following commands at the prompt:

A) rogue

Start a normal game.

B) rogue -s

See the score. The game does not start.

C) Rogue save file name

Resume the game from the specified save file.

D) rogue -r

Resume the game from the save file set in the environment variable.


2. Environment variable

Game parameters can be changed by specifying various environment variables.

A) SET HOME = home directory name

If the game directory is not set in the option c), specify it here
The score file is placed in the specified home directory. Home directory
If you do not specify either, the score file is placed in the current directory.

B) SET USER = Player name

Specify the player name. If you do not specify it will be "warrior". I can not see it
The records on the score file are identified by this USER variable. Single user
You don't have to worry much about MS-DOS, which is a system.

C) SET ROGUEOPTS = option, option,. . .

Set various game parameters. If there are duplicate parameters,
The parameters specified in the option of are valid. In addition, option string
You can not include the comma "," and the equal sign "=" in.

Option Meaning Unspecified value
[No] jump presence / absence of indication during movement nojump
[No] passgo do not stop at turning angle passgo
Display the tombstone at the end of [no] tombstone
[No] color Color display of map color
Fruit: <fruit name> Sometimes pick-ups
File: <save file name> File to save None
Name: <nickname> Player name may contain spaces
Directory: <path name> No game directory
Map: <display color> Display color mapping cbmyg
Type: <used model> used model name none
Init: <start column> Start column of screen mode None
Term: <end column> End column of screen mode None
Cursor: <On / Off column> Cursor erase string None

★ jump
When the move command is executed, the screen is displayed until the move is finished and the command is waiting
Do not rewrite the You can speed up the game progress.

★ passgo
Move until you hit something, or execute a command to move until you find something
When going, specify that it will not stop at the corner of the passage.

★ tombstone
Q Display the player's gravestone at the end of the game except command.

★ color
Color map in the game, in the display color set in the "map" option
    indicate. Either "color" or "map" option is set
If it does not, the display will be monochrome.

★ fruit
Names of fruits that may be picked up as food during the game, and specify your favorite fruits
Just do it. Even if you do not specify it does not affect the game progress.

★ file
When saving the game on the way, the file specified with this option is saved
Used as a file. If you specify a relative path name,
Path relative to the directory. When this option is not specified
Requires the input of a file name for the save command. This option
Is also used when resuming a saved game.

★ name
Specify a nickname that will be the player name in the game. To score file
This name is used for registration. There is no influence on the game progress even if you do not specify it.

★ directory
Specifies the directory where files for games are placed. During the game this
Directory becomes the current directory. This option is set
Score files, screen dump files in this directory
Created on If not set, the score file is home directory
Lee, screen dump files are created in the current directory.

★ map
This option when color display is set in the “color” option
Of the wall and aisle, the floor, the goods, the
Each color can be set. The color is w (white), r (red), g (green),
Specify one of y (yellow), b (blue), m (magenta), and c (cyan)
    be able to. When a capital letter (WRGYBMC) is specified, it is highlighted.
The standard setting is 'cbmyg', that is, the walls and passages are cyan, the floor is blue, the monster is
The items are yellow and the players are green.

★ type
Specify the model used. By specifying this option, you can
The "init" and "cursor" options are set accordingly. Specified
The model names that can be used are as follows.

Pc98 NEC PC-9801 series
Pc100 NEC PC-100
Ax companies AX specification machine
Fmr Fujitsu FMR series
B16 Hitachi B16 series
If800 Oki if-800 series
None Do not assume a specific model

★ init
Screen mode change such as cursor shape change, which is set at the start of the game
Specify a loop sequence. Even if you do not specify it does not affect the game progress. actually
The specified string is the ASCII code of each character in the escape sequence.
Is represented by two hexadecimal digits. Maximum length of escape sequence is 29
It is a byte.

For example, for the PC-9801 series, execute the following sequence at game start
If you want to go

ESC) 0 Indicate the mode to use kanji
ESC [> 3 l Indicates 25 line mode
ESC [> 1 h Make the program use the bottom line of the screen

You can define init as follows.

Init: 1b29301b5b3e336c1b5b3e3168

If "pc98" is specified for "type", this string is automatically determined.
Justified.

★ term
Specify the screen mode change escape sequence at the end of the game. Specified method
Is the same as "init".

When "pc98" is specified for "type",

ESC [> 1 l The system uses the bottom line of the screen

For the sequence of

1b5b3e316c

The string is automatically set.

★ cursor
Specify an escape sequence to turn on / off cursor display. This
Cursor options when rewriting the screen, if the
The indication is turned off. Even this option does not affect the game progress even if it is not specified
Yes. Specify a string similar to "init" separated by "/". Esque
The length of the loop sequence is up to 9 bytes each.

Hexadecimal display of cursor on / hexadecimal display of cursor off

When "pc98" is specified for "type",

ESC [> 5 l Display the cursor
ESC [> 5 h Do not show cursor

For the sequence of

1b5b3e356c / 1b5b3e3568

The string is automatically set.

D) SET ROGUE OPT1 to ROGUE OPT9 = options,. . .

The environment variable ROGUEOPT1-9 has the same options as ROGUEOPTS
It can be specified. When the option does not fit on one line, or temporarily
Can be used to change to The order of evaluation is ROGUEOPTS, R
The order is OGUE OPT 1-9.


3. CONFIG. SYS

It takes a lot of space for environment variables to set rogue options. For this reason,
Environment variable area may run out in standard MS-DOS configuration
(The standard environment variable area is 10 paragraphs, ie 160 bytes). MS-
If you are using DOS 3.1 or later, CONFIG. By setting of SYS file
Can be specified to extend this area. SHELL command for this
Use the E switch of For example, to take an area of ​​20 paragraphs (320 bytes)
CONFIG. Add the following line to SYS:

SHELL = A: \ COMMAND.COM A: \ / P / E: 20 (for MS-DOS 3.1)
SHELL = A: \ COMMAND.COM A: \ / P / E: 320 (for MS-DOS 3.3)

In addition, even if you do not expand the environment area, Rogue's command '! (MS-DOS command
In order to execute ")", SHELL needs to be set. At this time
CONFIG. Add the following line to SYS:

SHELL = A: \ COMMAND.COM A: \ / P


4. Standard setting

Second, if you are using the PC-9801 series with MS-DOS 3.3
Here are the settings for the gaming system floppy.

★ Contents of root directory

COMMAND .COM Command Interpreter
CONFIG .SYS system configuration file
AUTOEXEC.BAT startup execution file
GAMES game EXE file directory

★ Contents of the directory GAMES

ROGUE .EXE Rogue EXE file
ROGUEDIR Rogue game directory (initially empty)

★ CONFIG. Contents of SYS

FILES = 12
BUFFERS = 20
SHELL = A: \ CO
