Invitation to "The Cave of Destiny" by Japanese version Rogue Clone


Ota Jun

Ricoh Software Division



                 Overview

The Japanese version of Rogue Clone can run under MS-DOS.
Lactor oriented adventure & fantasy game
Rogue 5.3, which is included in the UNIX version of Berkeley
It is a clone with similar functions. Here is the Japanese version of Rogue Ku
I will give some tips on how to play with a loan.



1. Game scenario (background and progress)

"You just finished a few years at a local warrior training school. Many sweats and trials
After completing the training, you are always ready to go on a dangerous adventure.
It is ready. The teachers at the training school send you into the cave of fate to test your skill
I decided to The ordeal that was imposed on you was to get back the Yender's Amulet and return
is there. To be successful, you can be part of the prestigious Local Warriors Association.
Furthermore, all treasures brought back from the cave can be yours.

Take away from the dragon in the dark mountain, which is far away, in preparation for the adventure journey
A magical bow, a bow, and a bunch of arrows that are said to have been given to you. You
In addition, the fairy who lives in the forest makes a lot of things that the fairy made and eats until it gets to the cave
Have After telling your family and friends your last farewell, you headed the way.

After a few days after leaving for the cave, you're finally destiny
It reached an ancient ruin that became the entrance to the cave of The night was over, so you are in the cave
I decided to stay at the entrance and that night I slept under the night sky. When it is overnight, you collect weapons,
He often wore it, took a few meals and went down to the cave .... "

...... From the original article on Rogue "Inviting to the Cave of Fate"


The purpose of this game is to explore the cave of fortune and fight the monsters, 25 ground floor
Search for the avenge of Yender somewhere deep and bring it back to earth
It is.

A deep underground cave has several rooms on each floor and passages connecting them.
Each floor of the cave is connected by a stair, which is present only one on each floor. beginning,
I do not know where these rooms and walkways are. What is there walking around in this
The role of the player is to explore Players go upstairs looking for each floor
You have to get down underground. By the way, the map of each floor is different for each game
It is meaningless to write it down because it has become.

There are monsters waiting to beat the player in the room or passage. monster
There are various types of, and they attack in different ways. Player is fighting
Fight against these monsters by fighting command and gain experience and become stronger
It must be done.

In addition, various things are falling in the room and the passage. Gold directly linked to game scores
Hunks and food needed to continue the game (If you roam while hungry, the player will die
There are other items with various magical powers. Pick up these items
The items picked up are stored in the bag carried by the player. This
You can take advantage of the battle against the monsters by making good use of them.
There are also cases where the defeated monster has an item.



2. Screen layout

The following figure is an example of the screen at the start of the game. The player is on the ground floor of the cave
I am in one of the rooms. You can see a large quail in the same room with a snake. Also with gold nuggets
Drops are dropped one by one. Below the player is a staircase that leads to the second floor underground. The
In addition, the room where the player is located has doors at the top, right, and bottom, and it is separated from the passage to another room
It seems to be continuing.

-------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
Hi warrior. Welcome to the cave of fate ...




   ----- + ---------------
   | .. @ .............. *. |
   ...........!
   | ................................. |
   |.% ....................... |
   | ....... S .... E ...... +
   ------------- + -------



Floor: 1 Gold Mass: 0 Strength: 12 (12) Strength: 16 (16) Defense: 4 Experience: 1/0
-------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------

The bottom line of the screen shows the current state of the player. The following is the explanation.

Floor: Indicates the floor level of the cave at present.

Gold Bullion: The number of gold bullion picked up so far.

Physical strength: Current and upper limits of physical strength. Indicates how much damage you get and die. Monster
The value decreases with every attack. If you rest, your physical strength will recover. Head
The numerical value in the arc represents the upper limit value of the physical strength.

Strength: Current and upper value of strength. This is a number between 3 and 31. This number is large
The player's attack power is increased. The numbers in parentheses are the largest numbers ever obtained
It represents the strength.

Defensive: The defensive strength of the armor currently worn. The larger this number, the more the attack of the monster
It is possible.

Experience: These two numbers indicate the player's current experience level and experience value.
Experience points go up each time the player does something. When experience reaches a certain value
You can move on to the next experience level. Player battles get more experienced as they gain experience
Your arms will rise and you will be able to withstand attacks by magic.

In addition, when the player is hungry, "hunger" or "starving" at the bottom right end
"餓" may appear.

The top line of the screen is used to display messages. "[Continued]" message
When the message is displayed, there is a continuation of the message. Strike a space to read this
It is good.

The other part is the map of the floor. The characters on the screen have the following meanings
There is.

@ This represents a player.

These symbols represent the walls surrounding the room.

+ Doors at the entrance and exit of the room.

The floor of the room.

# A passage between rooms and rooms.

* Bullion.

) Weapons.

] It's a good time.

A small bottle containing a magic potion.

A magical scroll.

= Magic Ring.

/ Magic wand.

^. Usually hidden.

% Stairs leading to the previous or next floor.

: Food.

, Avenger's demon. The ultimate goal is to find out this.

A-Z Various monsters.



3. command

Rogue advances the game by entering a 1 to 3 letter command. Almost
Command can specify the number of repetitions (eg "10h"
Move 10 columns to the left). For commands where the count does not make sense, ignore the count
Be done. If you want to cancel the command halfway, just hit the escape key.
In the following description, enter one of the characters "hjklyumn" for <direction>.
In addition, <character> is a one-character alf representing the property the player is currently carrying.
Enter the alphabet. (If you enter "*", a list of available properties will be displayed.
You can select from them and enter. ) Also, in the following explanation "^"
Represents a control key. That is, "^ H" does not press the control key
It means to push "H".

? Help command. Display a list of all commands.

/ <Characters>
It tells you what the letters on the map represent.

h, H, ^ H
Move to the left. The player moves one position to the left. In the case of capital letters,
Move to the left until you get it. This is common to all move commands (eg
For example, "J" means running in the direction of "j"). "Control"
+ In 'h', until the player passes by something or hits a wall
Keep moving. This is also common to all move commands.

j Move down.

k Move up.

l Move to the right.

y Move to upper left.

u Move to the upper right.

b Move to the lower left.

n Move to the lower right.

t <Direction> <Items (Weapons)>
Throw the specified property in the specified direction. For example, "the" is a possession "e"
Throw to the left. (throw)

f <Direction>
Fight against monsters in the designated direction until either one is likely to die.
(fight)

F <Direction>
Fight against monsters in the specified direction until one of them dies. (fight)

m <Direction>
Move one in the specified direction, but don't pick it up if something is falling there.
(move)

z <Direction> <Items (Cane)>
Point the stick in the specified direction and fire it. (zap)

^ <Direction>
It will tell you what kind of snares are in contact with the specified direction.

s Adjust whether there is a trap or hidden door right next to the player
	Bell. There are doors and doors that can not be found without having to check them dozens of times.
(search)

> While standing on the stairs, get off the stairs.

<When you are standing on the stairs, go up the stairs. With the avenge of Yenda
You can not go up the stairs unless you

To rest. It can be used to wait for something or restore strength.

, While standing on something, pick up what is at your feet.

i This is a command to check your belongings, and the player carries it in a bag
Display a list of things. (inventory)

I <Items possessed>
Examine only the specified property. Look at only one thing in the bag.
(inventory)

q <Available items (Drug)>
Drink the potion in your belongings. (quaff)

r <Items (rolls)>
Read the scrolls in your belongings. (read)

e <owned goods (food)>
Eat food in your belongings. (eat)

w <Items (weapons)>
Switch weapons. You can not change your cursed weapon.
(wield)

W <Owned Goods (Yoroi)>
Wear a uniform. You can only wear one at a time. To the right
It takes some time to wear. (wear)

T <Owned Goods (Yoroi)>
Take off the armor. You can not take off the cursed arrow. Take off
It takes some time to (take off)

P <owned thing (ring)>
Put on the ring. You can ring one on each hand. One ring
When you are not using it, you will be asked which hand to put it on, so "l (left)"
Enter "r (right)". When you are ringing either
Are put in the hands of those who are not Also, the program is for the player
It is assumed to have. (put on)

R <owned thing (ring)>
Remove the ring. When only one ring is worn it is removed. Two
When you are wearing a ring, you will be asked which one to remove, so "l (left)"
Enter "r (right)". Also, the cursed ring